Many times the results generated by the bioinformatics programs are either simple `text` files (tab/comma seperated), `pdf` files or in some rare cases `png/jpeg` files. Here we will show you how to view these files without having to download them locally to your machine.
## Text files  
The `text` files are the easiest. You can use any of the standard UNIX commands to view them. There are many commands for this purpose such as:  

Command |	Purpose |	Example |	Use cases
--- | --- | --- | ---
`less` |	view file pagewise with more options |	`less` filename	| use `-S` to avoid line wrapping, you can use arrow keys to scroll
`more` |	view file pagewise	| `more` filename	| use `less` instead
`cat` |	catalogs the contents of a file	| `cat` filename	| you can send the contenst of a file to clipboard or to another file using this command
`tac` |	reverse of `cat`, reverses the order of lines	| `tac` filename	| pipe this to `less` commad to scroll through the file in reverse
`head` |	view first few lines of a file |	`head` filename	| use `-n` option to change the number of lines displayed. `-n 20` displays 20 lines
`tail` |	view last few lines of a file	| `tail` filename |	use `-n` option to change the number of lines displayed. `-n 20` displays 20 lines
`od` |	octal dump of a file |	`od` filename	| use`-c` options and pipe it through less. You can see non printable characters with this option (like tab, whitespace, newline etc)

## PDF files  
显示PDF和png/jpg等文件都需要图形界面，    
Make sure your Linux server allows X11 forwarding. You can enable this when you are logging in to the remote host using the `-X` option. For eg.,

```
ssh -X 用户名@10.100.128.160
```  
Once logged in, you can now open any GUI interface programs on the remote-host and it appears as a new window in your local machine. Although, there are plenty of program options to open a `pdf` file, you can almost always find the `firefox` browser in every machine. This should be sufficient to open a PDF file. To get started, type:

```
firefox
```
A new window will open, then go to `file` » `open file` » select the pdf file you want to open . If you don’t find the menu tab, pressing `alt + f` should bring up the `file` menu

## PNG/JPG图片文件  
To open any picture files, you can just do:

```
display filename.png
```
If you don’t have this program installed, you can try the `firefox` method. Although, to view png files, you may have to install the addon before you open the file. Addons are easy to add, once the firefox is opened, press `ctrl + shift + A`, that will open add-ons page (you can also just type `about:addons` to open this). Search for `Perfect View add-on`, and add it to your `firefox`. Now you can open the file normally as you opened the `pdf` files.

